# Codeboook
This document provides information generated by the ```run_analysis.R``` script.

#Original Data
The original data comes from http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones.

## Excerpt
>The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each >person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) >wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we >captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments >have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into >two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

>The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled >in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration >signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter >into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, >therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained >by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. 

#Generated Tidy Dataset

1. ```tidy.csv``` is comprised of 180 observations and 20 variables
2. The first variable, ```subject.id``` identifies the subject for that row data. There are 30 subjects in total.
3. The second variabe, ```activity.name``` denotes the activity performed by the subject. The six activities are walking, walking_upstairs, walking_downstairs, sitting, standing, and laying.
4. For this project, we were only intersted in the mean and std measurements from the dataset, which left us with 19 columns. Note that specific X, Y and Z mean and std were removed from the dataset because the project instructions were ambiguous in this regard. Therefore, I took only the "pure" mean and std measurements.
5. From the original dataset, "t" has been rewritten to "time" and "f" has been rewritten to "freq" to make the column headers more readable.
6. Finally, this data was grouped by ```subject.id``` and ```activity.name``` and the mean function applied, so that we are looking at the aggregated averages of multiple measurements by the groupings above.

A full description of the data can be found in the ```README.txt``` and ```activity_labels.txt``` documents
provided with the original dataset.

After running the script, the ```merged``` object can be viewed to look at the ungrouped measurements. The ```tidy``` object is what is then output to ```tidy.csv```.



